---
layout: article
permalink: /posts/2017-06-19-prom-report
title: 'Announcing "Social Feed Manager: Testing and Implementation Guide"'
author: laura_wrubel 
excerpt: "We're pleased to share this report by Christopher Prom of University of Illinois,
which assesses Social Feed Manager,
offers thoughts for how it can support archivists building social media archives, and 
provides recommendations for developers, archivists, funders, and the broader community."   
---
 
Our funding from NHPRC supported the opportunity to engage an archivist with
strong technical expertise to assess Social Feed Manager (SFM) and offer
recommendations for how it can support archivists building social media
archives. Christopher Prom, Assistant University Archivist at University of
Illinois, began working with us last fall and we have greatly benefitted from
his insights into how to improve SFM. We are pleased to share his final report,
[Social Feed Manager: Testing Report and Implementation Guide]
({{ site.github.url }}/resources/SFMReportProm2017.pdf). 

Chris's report walks through how an archivist might use SFM, understanding both
its advantages and limitations. In addition to helping archivists build
collections with the tool, he offers use cases for SFM and thoughts on shaping
local services related to social media archiving. Other topics the report
addresses include preservation and access concerns for social media collections,
descriptive metadata and packaging recommendations, and other tools available
for social media collecting. The report wraps up with recommendations for
libraries and archives, software developers, and the community and funders.

We're deeply appreciative of the work Chris has accomplished to create a
resource supporting and motivating archivists in the important work of archiving
ephemeral social media. Our conversations with him over the past year have
helped us make SFM a better-documented and more impactful tool to the community.
While we encourage you to read the whole report, we'll be highlighting excerpts
of the report over the next several weeks as standalone blog posts. 
